So now that we've looked at user data,
we have a few problems with it.
It turns out that it's a batch script,
but what if you want to have a very
large instance configuration?
And what if you want to evolve the state
of our EC2 instance without terminating it
and creating a new one?
How do we make EC2 user data more readable?
And how do we know if user data scripts
were successful or not?
So enter the CloudFormation helper scripts.
So these are Python scripts,
and they come directly with the Amazon Linux AMIs
or you can install them
if you don't have Amazon Linux using yum or dnf.
And four of these very important scripts are
cfn-init, cfn-signal, cfn-get-metadata, and cfn-hup
And in this lecture we're going to discuss cfn-init.
So first, before we discuss cfn-init,
let's discuss the CloudFormation init block.
So this is a block of configuration
that belongs to a metadata block within the resource
and it's comprised of multiple components.
We have packages on the right hand side,
you can see packages and it's used to download
and install prepackaged apps and components,
such as MySQL, PHP, et cetera, et cetera.
Then groups to define user groups,
users to define users,
sources to download files
and place them on your EC2 instance,
files to create files on an EC2 instance,
commands to run a series of commands,
and services to launch services.
And we'll see one of these examples,
so we'll make this very concrete in a few seconds.
So cfn-init is a Python script and it's used to retrieve
and interpret the resource metadata,
how to install packages, creating files,
and starting services on your EC2 instances.
So with this cfn-init script,
you can make complex EC2 configurations readable.
How does it work?
Well, the EC2 instance is going to query
the CloudFormation service to get the init data.
So CloudFormation is going to launch an EC2 instance.
The EC2 instance is going to run the cfn-init script
and it will retrieve the init data
directly from CloudFormation.
So of course we must define this CloudFormation in its block
in the metadata of a resource.
I will show you how in a second.
And all the logs for this is going to go
into the file named var/log/cfn-init.log.
So here we have cfn-init.yaml as a file
in which we create an EC2 instance, just like before,
and we have a user data script.
And as you can see, this user data script
is a little bit different.
This is a function in which we first update
and get the latest cfn-bootstrap script,
so this is the command right here.
And then we start the cfn-init script.
So we start cfn-init, we pass in a StackId
with a minus S argument,
and for this we resolve this StackId pseudo parameter.
Okay, so this is something that is provided
as part of your CloudFormation template already
and we just resolve it and pass it to the cfn-init script.
Then -r is to which resource we will find the metadata
attached to it.
So it's my instance.
My instance right here is the same name as here,
and so that means that here underneath my instance,
as you can see, underneath, underneath
there is a metadata block.
And this metadata block contains the CloudFormation
in its block we're looking for.
So this is why we indicate to the script cfn-init
to look into this StackId
and the resource being my instance.
Finally, we have the region again
with the pseudo parameter AWS::Region.
And then in case of errors,
we'll return a failed to run cfn-init.
Okay, so once we have that,
then we need to look deeper
at what this CloudFormation init block does.
So it does one configuration
and will install packages of type yum and httpd.
So it will install Apache.
Then it will define a file name index.html,
and here is the content of that file.
It's a multi-line string,
and here is the mode to read that file.
And then commands that we're going to run
such as echo 'hello world' just as an example,
and services that we initialize such as httpd,
which is going to be enabled yes
and ensureRunning: 'true'.
So this is way more readable,
way, way, way more readable
than the script we had from before.
Because this was convoluted, this was doing a lot of things,
but we didn't know exactly what.
But with this block right here, cfn-init,
we know which packages we install,
we know which files we create
and they can have very complex content.
We know the commands to run and the services to run.
So this is improving the way
we are defining user data in CloudFormation.
So let's run this.
So let's go back into our stacks
and then create a stack from a template
being cfn-init.
And I'll call this one DemoCfninit.
Next, and then we submit.
And so this is going to create an EC2 instance.
Again, just to describe the process.
This EC2 instance is going to bootstrap,
is going to run the user data and the script,
which is going to run the cfn-init command
to actually get data of the AWS CloudFormation init block
from our StackId and our instance and this region.
So let's have a look right here.
As you can see, yes, the instance is CREATE_IN_PROGRESS.
So my instance is now successfully created.
Let's go in here, refresh this.
We have a running instance with a public IPv4.
I'm going to copy this
and get a hello world back from our EC2 instance.
And this was created using cfn-init.
So this is all very positive.
Let's connect to our instance
and have a look at how we can debug things if need be.
So if I do cat /var/log/cloud-init log
we get some information that,
yes, this cfn-init command was being run,
but we don't get any output from it.
So instead, what I need to do is to kept the log,
so /var/log and then cfn-init.log.
And this is going to show me all the log
of what has been running such as,
hey, we've installed httpd, we ran the command hello,
we enabled the service,
we started the service as well, and so on.
But if you want to get more output from this command,
you would get some information
out of the cfn-init-cmd.log file.
And this is going to give you the output of all the commands
that were run by cfn-init.
And so in case there are any errors,
this is where you would look at to debug.
And so thanks to this,
we saw how to properly configure an EC2 instance
in a easier way, thanks to CloudFormation.
But still, we don't know if this was successful or not,
and we don't report this back to CloudFormation,
and that's something we'll learn about in the next lecture.
But first, don't forget
to delete your stack and you're done.
All right, that's it.
I will see you in the next lecture.